The Joe Rogan experience. Do you fall won the ultimate fighter as a heavyweight,
which is so crazy.
I know. Cause if you look at me now, I'm like a,
what are you weighing now by 70 fighter?
<Laugh> yeah. What are you weighing now? What.
Are you walking around now? I'm consisting like 200, 200 pounds.
200 Pounds. Yeah. Wow. 200 pounds. Yeah. That is like a one 70 now. Yeah.
In this day and age. Yeah, 200.
200 Pounds. But, but I feel good though, man. I, I feel really, really good.
And, um, it's, it's a level that I, I didn't expect to,
I didn't expect to feel this good.
I didn't think that a diet can make me feel this. Good. What.
Is, what is particularly makes you feel so good? In what way?
Um, my energy, I have a energy level that I it's really hard to,
to say. It kind of feels, uh, a bit supernatural in a bit, you know,
like I feel, I feel energy. Like I feel,
I feel like my body's energy, it feels, it's kind of hard to say.
It's kind of like, not, not hard to say.
It's kind of hard to describe without looking crazy, but.
Well, you're obviously byon's vegan diet. I'm,
I'm seeing all these supplements you're taking spilina and all these different
things. Yeah. You're obviously doing it right. Which is, you know,
there's a lot of people that they're, they're vegan,
but they're eating like pasta and pizza and like that. Yeah. They're just not,
they're not doing it correctly in terms of taking the proper amount of
nutrients. Right.
And that's, and that's the thing about it. Like I, um, I read this book,
the musless diet and it's by, uh, Dr. Arnold, Eric.
And this is like in the early 19 hundreds, he came up with this book and he had,
uh, some stomach issues and it was, you know,
not until he was fed up and was on like, you know, what I'm like,
he was starving himself. And then he realized he had some really, you know, uh,
it kind of changes his, his stomach situation.
So then he started looking into diet and nutrition and then he, um,
he became a fruitarian. Hmm.
And this book is talking about pretty much, you know,
the role of food in your body and,
and what it does and what causes mucus and what doesn't cause mucus. And,
um, you know, through understanding the mucus has died and just reading it,
it just gave me a different hold on,
understanding like a different understanding of the, of why I'm doing this,
you know? And, and it came, it became to me deeper than just like, oh,
I can't have this because, you know, the, it says I shouldn't have it. It says,
I can't have it because you know, this is gonna cause inflammation. You know, I,
I ha I know the deeper reason of why.
So it's easier for me to avoid the pitfalls of bad food. You know, mm-hmm.
There's also a situation with people where there's
everyone, there's biological variability where some people,
some diets just sink up well for them, mm-hmm <affirmative> yes. Yes.
Like I know,
I know a lot of people that they don't feel good when they eat red meat.
When they eat fish, they feel great. Yeah. When they eat light foods, you know,
their, their body, whatever, for whatever it is, their digestion favors,
certain type of diet.
Yeah. And that, that's what I found too, because, um, uh, I don't,
I don't know if this will work for everybody. It probably won't work for every,
I mean, it, most likely it won't work for everybody, but for me, uh, it was,
it was something that my body just was like, ah, it's about time.
You started to start to treat us the right. Way-hmm <affirmative>, you know,
just see. And the crazy part about it is the fact that now I train less,
but I can train harder.
Like now I can do sparring sessions where like I spar for like an hour
straight. Really? Yeah. And I'm, and I'm,
and I'm sparring at a pretty good pace. Like, I'm not, um, like,
like it's, it's smart sparring.
Like we're not like bashing each other in the head and like that. Right.
We just we're we're we were being smart about it. You know, we're doing, um,
you know, a little bit lighter to the head, but more,
more heavy shots to the body, you know, mm-hmm,
<affirmative> making those ones count. Um, and just kind of like touching,
you know, giving an, a nice shot to the head, but not a, like a,
I'm gonna knock you out the shot to the.
Head. Right. What type of foods are you eating? Like, how are you, what is, uh,
like gimme a typical meal for you?
Um, typically speaking, uh, it, uh, depends on the time of the day, but,
but I don't eat no more enough,
fast up until noon or until like one o'clock. And then my first.
Are you on like a 16 hour or 14? Hourmitt fast, like.
16, uh, in bit fast. And then, um, once I eat,
I usually eat like, uh, like I come home and I'll eat, you know, maybe like a,
a Hardy, Hardy shake that I make a fruit, and then I'll put some, um,
you know, some, some mushrooms and stuff in it. And just like, uh, you know,
the corticeps the, the lions MaDee and, you know, from this, uh,
brand life cycle. Sure. You, you, life cycle-hmm with k-hmm.
So that brand right there makes us, you know,
really good tincture that you just drop it in there and you,
don't gotta worry about changing the flavor of too much of, of your shake.
So I drop that in there with my shakes and stuff like that. And, um,
I usually take that that'll be my first meal.
Then the second one would be a little bit more hearty.
It'll be something with vegetables and maybe some potatoes or something.
So it's a little bit more hearty and then I'll have another hearty, uh, meal,
like a vegetable type meal, vegetable based meal at nighttime. And then, um,
then I'll usually be done for the day.
Are you, uh, using any protein powders, P protein, hemp, protein,
anything along those lines? No, I don't. I don't use any just vegetables,
raw vegetables. Yeah. Just.
Raw vegetables, raw vegetables and fruit. Interesting. Yeah. And, and I don't,
and I don't really feel like I, uh, like I have it, like, I have a need for,
like, I, I feel like, um, my muscle mass is, is pretty good. Like,
I don't feel like I'm, I'm too skinny or like, I don't, I'm not gain any muscle.
I feel like I can gain muscle and, uh, you know, it,
it is just been working for me and.
It's, so basically you just eat to feel good. Like,
however it makes you feel good. Yeah. High. Right. And you've got it down now,
you know, like what kind of foods it's, um, the,
the supplement thing gets strange with vegans. You know,
there's a lot of folks that they're mixing a lot of different dietary yeasts and
a lot of different powders and different things and blending these different
things. And it's, uh, some people don't like the way that feels when you're,
you're eating like that.
But it sounds like what you're eating is much more whole food based. Yeah.
Mine have just whole food base. Like a lot of the foods that I,
I became actually a good cook now because of the fact that I had to learn to
cook my own food. Uh, my wife, she was, she was busy, uh, becoming, you know,
busier on her own, doing her own thing.
So she wasn't able to cook me like she was before, but then I,
I learned myself and, uh, through learning myself, it just completely just like,
took the shackles on off of, off of me.
You know what I'm sayinghmm <affirmative> right.
You cook took your own nice.
Meals. Yeah. So now I, um,
I cook a lot of like west Indians type of foods because they have a really good
oh, okay. Vegetarian, uh, menu, like a lot of chickpeas mm-hmm <affirmative> um,
and, and things of that nature. There's a really.
Good vegetarian Indian place around here that I go, go to see, I,
I love Indian food. Yeah. It's really good.
I haven't gone a month cause I've been on this carnivore diet, but this, uh,
this place was fantastic. Really interesting, weird, you know, vegetable dishes,
everything's vegetarian, you know, it's, uh, I guess it's, uh, with them,
it's a religious thing. A lot of, uh, a lot of Indians are vegetarian. Yeah.
Vegetarian. Yeah. And that, and that's,
and I like a lot of Indian food just because of that, you know,
mm-hmm <affirmative> and, uh, that whole food diet, it just,
it just works for me, but like, um, like you said, like these supplements,
like this, this makes me, like, I feel like when I drink this, like,
thepilina eat a lot of greens and, uh, even, even like the mushrooms, you know,
the corcept mushrooms and stuff like that,
like I just have energy to just go and go and go that.
Lifestyle cycle tincture. So hate me some of that recently. Yeah.
Very good. I, I gotta have, 'em send you some, I gotta have ' sing some, they,
they send, like, they have like a,
a really nice tincture set that they send out. I should bring it, but, um,
it, it has like, like it has, um, uh, hi, it has Turkey,
tail lions main, uh, that corticeps, and, and it even gives you,
you know, a schedule on, on when you should take it and when,
when it's best for, but it is, um, it's a really, really good,
good mushrooms because, you know, they, they, they put,
they infuse theirs with this. Uh,
it it's it's cockkadu plum. It's a cockkadu plum. Do you ever hear that? No.
It's a funny name. Yeah. I know.
It's it's cockaddu plum is from a Australia and it's,
it's like one of the most high, uh,
highend vitamin C fruits. There, there is like,
it's way higher in vitamin C than oranges and everything else like that.
And then cockoo plum. Yeah. Kakadou plum. Okay. Yeah. K K a.
D U plum.
That sounds like something that a little kid <laugh> cockadoo plant do. Yeah.
What.
But that's, I mean, they, um, it's, it's a really, really good supplement and,
uh, I don't really like to recommend supplements too much,
but that's one that I, I take and I'm like, man, I feel,
I feel way better off.
Do you eat a lot of beats?
I do. I do eat. I, I do eat beats.
Are really good. Beats are supposed to be really good for endurance. Yeah.
Beats.
Are really good, but it's, it's crazy. Like just eating greens,
like I've been eating greens. I just don't. I, I feel like I don't get tired.
Like I used to, like, my body's just instantly recovering. Like,
what was your old diet?
Like? What would you, what was it like when you're training for a fight?
What would typical meals be like? Um.
It was pretty clean, but it was, uh, I, I would eat a lot of meat.
I would eat a lot of meat and, and, uh, I'm O positive.
So I'll eat like a lot of red meat and I felt really good when I ate red meat.
Like, it felt as if, like, when I eat red meat,
it almost felt like I can feel it like within like the next 20, 30 minutes.
Like my body breaks it down really fast, you know? Yeah. So I felt,
I felt good eating it, but I didn't feel like I, I had the, uh,
like the endurance. Like, I,
I didn't feel the endurance aspect like I do right now. Mm. You know,
I see what you're saying. So that that's been a, like,
the best that I ever felt was when I, um, fought teato Ortiz,
I was eating, I was eating red meat, but I also was coupling that up with, uh,
a lot of spinach. I was eating a lot of spinach.
Like I would go and get for Popeye. Yeah. Get a big bag of spinach. Yeah.
That's exactly what I was doing.
I'll get a big bag of spinach and ill just put it in a blender and just grind it
up and then throw like some apples in it,
make it a little bit sweeter to change the taste. So it wouldn't be so,
so greenish. Right. Like I eating grass. Right.
And then I would just drink those all the time,
but it just made me feel so strong.
Interesting. Interesting. Now,
did you used to work with the nutritionist at all?
I did. Yeah. I, I did. I worked with, um.
Because when you were cutting weight, like how many fights did about 85?
Uh, two, two.
Fight to 85. Was that too much of a struggle?
Yeah, it was too much of a struggle. Like I'm,
I'm in a weird position cuz I'm not, I'm not, I'm not a very big person.
I'm not big enough to be a light heavyweight,
but I'm not small enough to be a middleweight either.
Like in feel like I can, you know, like, so I was in like in that weird,
weird space. So when I cut the down to 180 5,
it felt like it felt drained that drained. I just didn't have the,
the movement in the pop, you know, mm-hmm <affirmative> but then at 2 0 5,
I kind of felt undersized, you know, back.
Back then, what did you walk around at.
Back then? I was walking around, around like 2 25, 2 30.
And what was different because it was from eating the meat, you.
Think, from eating to meat, from eating the meat, I, I will get that.
Alone has gotta probably increase your endurance.
Just the loss of that much body mass. Yeah.
20 plus pounds that your body doesn't have to pump blood through. Yeah. You.
You're absolutely right about that.
You know? Yeah. So that just came off naturally when you stopped eating meat.
Yep. And.
And, and another thing too, like I would, I would, um, you know, <affirmative>,
this is another reason why like, cuz when I wasn't fighting,
that was the problem because I,
I would get into these bad eating habits because I would always know that when I
had training camp, I could just cut the weight and just right.
Lose it like that. But uh, after a while that just becomes your habit.
Anything you do over time that becomes your habit, it becomes your lifestyle.
And I was eating a lot of sugar, drinking, a lot of boos and like that.
So I was like, man, I need to make a change for my life,
for the rest of my life, you know? Right.
And that's why this whole lifestyle fit so much better in me. You know.
Do you think that would've changed your career?
Had you eaten this way back when you were competing? I think so.
I think it would've but at the same time, I don't, I don't know. In which way,
you know what I'm saying? Right. I feel been too chill. Yeah. Yeah. I feel,
I feel like, cause you's so calm now. Yeah. I feel like I, I was,
I was what I needed to be at the time I needed to be it, you know? I see.
I.